As part of UCC'S Rocketry and Space Exploration Society, I am helping develop the electronic systems for the CanSat and advising with the Hardware Avionics team for the Mach '26 entry, codenamed Cerberus. Alongside this, I also advised for the beginning of the to-be-named joint UCC and MTU EuRoc entry.

# Rocket

Cerberus is planned to be entered as a Category 3 rocket, reaching a planned apogee of 1.5-3km, and in line with the UKRA Model Rocket Safety Code.

The rocket builds upon UCC RSES engineering teams success launching Ireland's first SRAD Flight Computer, Grasshopper. 

# CanSat

## Mission

The CanSat is set to feature in the Cerberus rocket with a custom computer that logs various data points. This includes the 3 atmospheric readings required to be logged by the rocket to be classed as a Category 3 Rocket. The CanSat will separate from the two-stage rocket at apogee.

## Platform

The CanSat computer is modelled on a custom purpose-made PCB, powered by a Raspberry Pi Pico 2. It features a second microcontroller, the ESP32-CAM, to take photos during the flight. The Raspberry Pi Pico 2 communicates to the ESP32-Cam via one-way communication to notify it to take photos at specific time-sensitive points (e.g apogee).

The CanSat is also set to carry a medical payload, to carry out medical experiments in the air. Some of the datapoints logged by the rocket include;

* Pressure, Height, and Altitude. (BMP280)
* Temperature and Humidity. (BMP280)
* Acceleration and Orientation. (MPU6050)
* Location, Speed. (NEO-6M GPS).

The CanSat features a LoRa telemetry logger that sends data back to a ground station. The Pi also logs a restricted amount of telemetry to the onboard flash (of which 16 MB is available) at a slower rate than the radio telemetry to preserve space and save backup data in the event of a telemetry fault.

> As development is ongoing, not much info is publicly available at this time. This will be updated closer to the competition!

