As always, I spent my Monday evening on the second week of June watching Apple's WWDC keynote. This year, Apple announced a new AI assistant called Siri AI, which is designed to be more conversational and context-aware than previous iterations of Siri.

If this sounds familiar, it’s because it is. We were supposed to receive similar features in iOS 18, but it was delayed due to unreasonable timelines and unfinished misadvertised features. Now, with iOS 27, Siri AI is finally here.

It's a really exciting time for Apple users, as Siri AI promises to make our interactions with our devices more natural and intuitive. The new assistant can understand context better, remember previous conversations, and provide more relevant responses. It's what we were promised from a "conversational AI" all those years ago, and it seems like Apple has finally delivered.

### The Models

You can now access the new Foundation Models through ```fm``` in the Terminal. Apple is providing two on-device models, each with different capabilities and performance characteristics. The models are:

- AFM 3 Core: a 3 billion parameter model for speed and efficiency.
- AFM 3 Core Advanced: Only available on certain devices with the newest Apple Silicon, this model is a 20 billion parameter model with advanced capabilities, able to activate just 1-4 billion parameters based on request type.

Apple is continuing their development in the Cloud model space. They have 3 Cloud models:

- AFM 3 Cloud: a model for speed and efficiency.
- AFM 3 Cloud (Image): a more powerful model for image based tasks.
- AFM 3 Cloud Pro: the most advanced model for the highest level of performance, with the ability of using agentic tool use and complex reasoning.

These 5 models were made in partnership with Google, and are miles more more efficient and effective than previous models. They are of course still designed ith privacy in mind.

There seems to be a lot of confusion about Google's role in this, but it seems that Apple is using Google's expertise in AI to help develop their own models, in a deal worth billions. They are NOT using Gemini models directly and you will not be expected to link Gemini, unlike the iOS 18 ChatGPT fiasco.

### Private Cloud Compute

Apple continues to lead the way in privacy and security, with their already existing Private Cloud Compute feature making a comeback this year. This allows users to run AI models on Apple's servers, without them being able to access the user's data. These servers can be examined by third parties to ensure that they are secure and that user data is not being accessed or stored.

Apple creates custom servers that run on Apple Silicon, meaning they control as much of the hardware aspect as they can.

### My Favorite Features

I believe my favourite feature of Siri AI is the new natural language shortcuts. This allows users to describe a shortcut in plain language, and Siri AI will create the shortcut for them. This is a huge improvement over the previous method of creating shortcuts, which required users to know how to use the Shortcuts app and its various actions. I personally hated the original flow, so I think this is a huge step forward.

Apple's UI has always been a strong point, and the new Siri AI interface is no exception. The new interface is clean, simple, and easy to use. They have a mix of the Siri "rainbow" from iOS 18 and Liquid Glass to create a nice visual effect when talking to Siri from the homescreen. The Siri chat app is also a nice addition, having a ChatGPT app vibe, allowing users to have a more natural conversation with Siri AI, and to see the content from their previous conversations.

Finally, I love that we finally have a more contextual assistant that understands user intent. I don't have to babysit Siri AI anymore, and I can have a more natural conversation with it. It can remember previous conversations, and it can understand intent better than previous iterations of Siri. It understands what "this" or "that" is based on what is on my screen.

### The Caveats

Apple have announced like any other AI platform, that their Cloud models will not have unrestricted access. There will be daily limits for usage, with iCloud+ users getting more usage than free users. 

Siri AI is also not available in the EU/China for the forseeable future on iOS. Apple has stated that they will be rolling out Siri AI to more regions over time, but it is unclear when this will happen. iPhone Mirroring still does not work in the EU, mainly due to the DMA, and I expect that this may be the same for some Siri AI features. I could rant for hours about the EU's stance on the DMA and how it is killing innovation, but I will save that for another blog.

### Concluding Thoughts

Overall, I am very impressed with Siri AI. It is a huge step forward for Apple, and I believe it will be a game changer for the way we interact with our devices. I will probably write another blog when I investigate further developer use of the Foundation Models, but for now, I am very excited to see what the future holds for Siri AI and Apple's AI ecosystem.

I also hope Apple can launch in the EU soon. There is a lot of bickering online about whether Apple or the EU is in the wrong, but I think the EU is missing out on a lot of innovation by not allowing Apple and other companies to launch groundbreaking features in the region.
