As part of UCC'S Rocketry and Space Exploration Society, I am helping develop the electronic systems for the CanSat and advising with the Hardware Avionics team for the Mach '26 entry, codenamed Cerberus. Alongside this, I also advised for the beginning of the to-be-named joint UCC and MTU EuRoc entry.

# Rocket

Cerberus is planned to be entered as a Category 3 rocket, reaching a planned apogee of 1.5-3km, and in line with the UKRA Model Rocket Safety Code.

The rocket builds upon UCC RSES engineering teams success launching Ireland's first SRAD Flight Computer, Grasshopper in the Theseus rocket.

## Avionics Bay

Since the launch of the Theseus test rocket in March, the hardware avionics team took over the 3D design and build of the avionics bay, which had previously been managed by structural. This approach allows the team to trial solutions internally, without putting extra pressure on other teams. The design of the new avionics bay is led by myself and [John](https://www.linkedin.com/in/john-magner1)

The new avionics bay features a redesigned "sled" that features fixtures to mount batteries and boards in a more space efficient and safer way. It also includes a window to the flight computer for rapid testing and diagnostics without disassembling the avionics bay.

# CanSat

## Mission

The CanSat is set to feature in the Cerberus rocket with a custom computer that logs various data points. This includes the 3 atmospheric readings required to be logged by the rocket to be classed as a Category 3 Rocket. The CanSat will separate from the two-stage rocket at apogee.

## Platform

The CanSat computer is modelled on a custom purpose-made PCB, powered by a Raspberry Pi Pico 2. It features a second microcontroller, the ESP32-CAM, to take photos during the flight. The Raspberry Pi Pico 2 communicates to the ESP32-Cam via one-way communication to notify it to take photos at specific time-sensitive points (e.g apogee).

The CanSat is also set to carry a medical payload, to carry out medical experiments in the air. Some of the datapoints logged by the rocket include;

* Pressure, Height, and Altitude. (BMP280)
* Temperature and Humidity. (BMP280)
* Acceleration and Orientation. (MPU6050)
* Location, Speed. (NEO-6M GPS).

The CanSat features a LoRa telemetry logger that sends data back to a ground station. The Pi also logs a restricted amount of telemetry to the onboard flash (of which 16 MB is available) at a slower rate than the radio telemetry to preserve space and save backup data in the event of a telemetry fault.

It utilises the two core architecture of the Pico 2 to commence certain data reads on one process and reads slower data on the other. This is important for the GPS, which sends data at a lower rate than the main components, with a process on the 2nd core dedicated to this. This is achieved through separate loop functions (loop() & loop1()).

> As development is ongoing, not much info is publicly available at this time. This will be updated closer to the competition!

